---
title: "SQL"
date: 2017-10-11T11:45:36+02:00
categories:
  - Code
tags:
  - SQL
---

---
CLAUSES
Aggregate Functions


# My first SQL Query's

id	name	age
1	Justin Bieber	22
2	Beyonce Knowles	33
3	Jeremy Lin	26
4	Taylor Swift	26

``` SQL
SELECT * FROM celebs;

CREATE TABLE celebs(id INTEGER, name TEXT, age INTEGER);

INSERT INTO celebs (id,name,age) VALUES (1, 'Justin Bieber', 21);
INSERT INTO celebs (id, name, age) VALUES (2, 'Beyonce Knowles', 33);
INSERT INTO celebs (id, name, age) VALUES (3, 'Jeremy Lin', 26);
INSERT INTO celebs (id, name, age) VALUES (4, 'Taylor Swift', 26);
SELECT name FROM celebs;

UPDATE celebs
SET age = 22
WHERE id = 1;
SELECT * FROM celebs;

ALTER TABLE celebs ADD COLUMN twitter_handle TEXT;
SELECT * FROM celebs;

UPDATE celebs
SET twitter_handle = '@taylorswift13'
WHERE id = 4;

DELETE FROM celebs WHERE twitter_handle IS NULL;

SELECT * FROM celebs;
```

Generalizations
Congratulations! You've learned six commands commonly used to manage data stored in a relational database. What can we generalize so far?

SQL is a programming language designed to manipulate and manage data stored in relational databases.

A relational database is a database that organizes information into one or more tables.
A table is a collection of data organized into rows and columns.
A statement is a string of characters that the database recognizes as a valid command.

CREATE TABLE creates a new table.
INSERT INTO adds a new row to a table.
SELECT queries data from a table.
UPDATE edits a row in a table.
ALTER TABLE changes an existing table.
DELETE FROM deletes rows from a table.

# Lesson 2
movies220 rows
id	INTEGER
name	TEXT
genre	TEXT
year	INTEGER
imdb_rating	REAL

``` SQL
SELECT name, imdb_rating FROM movies;
SELECT DISTINCT genre FROM movies;

SELECT * FROM movies WHERE imdb_rating > 8;
SELECT * FROM movies WHERE name LIKE 'Se_en';

SELECT * FROM movies WHERE name LIKE 'a%';
SELECT * FROM movies WHERE name LIKE '%man%';

SELECT * FROM movies WHERE name BETWEEN 'A' AND 'J';
SELECT * FROM movies WHERE year BETWEEN 1990 AND 2000;

SELECT * FROM movies WHERE year BETWEEN 1990 AND 2000
AND genre = 'comedy';

SELECT * FROM movies WHERE genre = 'comedy'
OR year < 1980 ;

SELECT * FROM movies ORDER BY imdb_rating DESC;

SELECT * FROM movies ORDER BY imdb_rating ASC
LIMIT 3;
```

Generalizations
Congratulations! You just learned how to query data from a database using SQL. What can we generalize so far?

SELECT is the clause you use every time you want to query information from a database.
WHERE is a popular command that lets you filter the results of the query based on conditions that you specify.
LIKE and BETWEEN are special operators that can be used in a WHERE clause
AND and OR are special operators that you can use with WHERE to filter the query on two or more conditions.
ORDER BY lets you sort the results of the query in either ascending or descending order.
LIMIT lets you specify the maximum number of rows that the query will return. This is especially important in large tables that have thousands or even millions of rows.

# Lesson 3

fake_apps200 rows
id	INTEGER
name	TEXT
category	TEXT
downloads	INTEGER
price	REAL

``` SQL
SELECT * FROM fake_apps;
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fake_apps;

SELECT COUNT(*) FROM fake_apps
WHERE price = 0;

SELECT price, COUNT(*) FROM fake_apps
GROUP BY price;

SELECT price, COUNT(*) FROM fake_apps
WHERE downloads > 20000
GROUP BY price;

SELECT SUM(downloads) from fake_apps;

SELECT category, SUM(downloads) FROM fake_apps
GROUP BY category;

SELECT MAX(downloads) FROM fake_apps;

SELECT name, category, MAX(downloads) FROM fake_apps
GROUP BY category;

SELECT MIN(downloads) FROM fake_apps;

SELECT name, category, MIN(downloads) FROM fake_apps
GROUP BY category;

SELECT AVG(downloads) FROM fake_apps;

SELECT price, AVG(downloads) FROM fake_apps
GROUP BY price;

SELECT price, ROUND(AVG(downloads), 2) FROM fake_apps
GROUP BY price;

SELECT price, ROUND(AVG(downloads)) FROM fake_apps
GROUP BY price;
```

Generalizations
Congratulations! You just learned how to use aggregate functions to perform calculations on your data. What can we generalize so far?

Aggregate functions combine multiple rows together to form a single value of more meaningful information.
COUNT takes the name of a column(s) as an argument and counts the number of rows where the value(s) is not NULL.
GROUP BY is a clause used with aggregate functions to combine data from one or more columns.
SUM() takes the column name as an argument and returns the sum of all the values in that column.
MAX() takes the column name as an argument and returns the largest value in that column.
MIN() takes the column name as an argument and returns the smallest value in that column.
AVG() takes a column name as an argument and returns the average value for that column.
ROUND() takes two arguments, a column name and the number of decimal places to round the values in that column.

# Lesson 4

albums14 rows
id	INTEGER
name	TEXT
artist_id	INTEGER
year	INTEGER

artists0 rows
id	INTEGER
name	TEXT

``` SQL
CREATE TABLE artists(id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, name TEXT);

SELECT * FROM albums;
SELECT * FROM artists;

SELECT * FROM albums WHERE artist_id = 3;
SELECT * FROM artists WHERE id = 3;

SELECT albums.name, albums.year, artists.name FROM albums, artists;

SELECT
*
FROM
	albums
JOIN artists ON
	albums.artist_id = artists.id;

SELECT
*
FROM
	albums
LEFT JOIN artists ON
	albums.artist_id = artists.id;

SELECT
  albums.name AS 'Album',
  albums.year,
  artists.name AS 'Artist'
FROM
  albums
JOIN artists ON
  albums.artist_id = artists.id
WHERE
  albums.year > 1980;
```

Generalization
Congratulations! You just learned how to query information from multiple tables using SQL. What can we generalize so far?

Primary Key is a column that serves a unique identifier for row in the table. Values in this column must be unique and cannot be NULL.
Foreign Key is a column that contains the primary key to another table in the database. It is used to identify a particular row in the referenced table.
Joins are used in SQL to combine data from multiple tables.
INNER JOIN will combine rows from different tables if the join condition is true.
LEFT OUTER JOIN will return every row in the left table, and if the join condition is not met, NULL values are used to fill in the columns from the right table.
AS is a keyword in SQL that allows you to rename a column or table in the result set using an alias.



# Basis Table Transformations

# Lesson 1

While working with databases, we often need to transform data from one format to achieve a desired result. In SQL, this is often called data transformation or table transformation.

We'll begin learning about table transformation through subqueries. Subqueries, sometimes referred to as inner queries or nested queries, are used to transform table data by nesting one query within another query.

``` SQL
SELECT * FROM flights LIMIT 10;

SELECT *
FROM flights
WHERE origin in (
	SELECT code
	FROM airports
	WHERE elevation < 2000);

SELECT *
FROM flights
WHERE origin in (
	SELECT code
	FROM airports
	WHERE faa_region = 'ASO');
```


# Introduction to SQL

From the book: SQL - Easy SQL Programming and Database Management For Beginners

We'll go through the entire book and write down our biggest lessons and best findings.

Some of the most common SQL commands.
```SQL
ABS ALL ALLOCATE ALTER AND ANY
ARE ARRAY AS AT AVG BEGIN
BETWEEN BINARY BOOLEAN BOTH BY CALL
CASCADED CASE CEILING CHAR CHARACTER CHECK
CLOSE COLLATE COLLECT COLUMN COMMIT CONDITION
CONNECT CONSTRAINT CONVERT COUNT CREATE CURSOR
CYCLE DATE DAY DEALLOCATE DEC DECIMAL
DECLARE DEFAULT DELETE DESCRIBE DISCONNECT DISTINCT
DOUBLE DROP DYNAMIC EACH ELEMENT ELSE
END ESCAPE EVERY EXCEPT EXECUTE EXISTS
EXTERNAL EXTRACT FALSE FETCH FILTER FLOAT
FLOOR FOR FOREVER FREE FROM FULL
FUNCTION FUSION GET GLOBAL GRANT GROUP
GROUPING HAVING HOLD HOUR HOURS IDENTITY
IN INNER INOUT INSERT INT INTEGER
INTERSECT INTERVAL INTO IS JOIN KEEP
LANGUAGE LARGE LEAD LEFT LIKE LOCAL
LOWER MATCH MAX MEMBER MERGE METHOD
MINUTE MOD MODULE MONTH MULTISET NATIONAL
NATURAL NEW NIL NO NONE NORMALIZE
NOT NULL NUMERIC OF OFFSET OLD
ON ONLY OPEN OR ORDER OUT
OVER OVERLAY PARAMETER PARTITION POSITION POWER
PRECISION PREPARE PRIMARY PROCEDURE RANGE RANK
REAL RECURSIVE REF REFERENCES REFERENCING RELEASE
RESULT RETURN REVOKE RIGHT ROLLBACK ROLLUP
ROW ROWS SCOPE SCROLL SEARCH SECOND
SELECT SET SIMILAR SOME SPECIFIC SQL
START STATIC SUM SYMMETRIC SYSTEM TABLE
THEN TIME TIMESTAMP TO TRANSLATE TREAT
TRIGGER TRUNCATE TRIM TRUE UNION UNIQUE
UNKNOWN UPDATE UPPER USER USING VALUE
VALUES VARCHAR VARYING VERSION WHEN WHENEVER
WHERE WINDOW WITH WITHIN WITHOUT YEAR
```

While we talk about SQL it is usefull to define a couple of concepts and words, so it's easier to explain some of the concepts.

• **Schema** – This is also called the conceptual view or the complete logical view that defines the
entire database structure and provides overall table organization. Such schema is considered a
metadata – stored in tables and part of the database (just like tables that consist of regular data).

• **Domain** – This specifies the set of all finite data values you can store in a particular table
column or attribute. For example, in our previous CUSTOMER TABLE the STATE column can
only contain the values “TX”, “NY”, “CA” and “NV” if you only provide products and services
in the states of Texas, New York, California and Nevada respectively. So these four state
abbreviations are the domain of the STATE attribute.

• **Constraint** – Often ignored but one of the important database components, this sets down the
rules that identify what data values a specific table attribute can contain. Incorporating tight
constraints assures that database users only enter valid data into a particular column.

* **DDL** - Data Definition Language
* **DML** - Data Manipulation Language
* **DQL** - Data Query Language
* **DCL** - Data Control Language
* **TCC** - Transactional Control Commands

## Types of Data

There are different kinds of data in SQL.

* Numeric
  * Exact Numeric
    * INTEGER
    * SMALLINT
    * BIGINT
    * NUMERIC(p,s)
    * DECIMAL(p,s)
    * REAL(s)
    * DOUBLE PRECISION(p,s)
    * FLOAT(p,s)

* String
    * CHAR(n) or CHARACTER(n)
    * VARCHAR(n) or CHARACTER VARYING(n)
    * CHARACTER LARGE OBJECT (CLOB)

* Date and TIME
    * DATE yyyy-mm-dd
    * TIME ("HH:MM:SS")
    * DATETIME "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS"
    * TIMESTAMP

* Boolean    

* User-Defined Data Types UDTs
  * CREATE TYPE USDollar AS DECIMAL (9,2)
  * CREATE TYPE UKPound AS DECIMAL (9,2)

# Chapter 5: Data Definition Language Statements

## CREATE Statements


CREATE TABLE TABLE_NAME
(field1 DATA_TYPE [not null],
field2 DATA_TYPE [not null],
field3 DATA_TYPE [not null],
field4 DATA_TYPE [not null],
field5 DATA_TYPE [not null]);

## ALTER Statements

ALTER TABLE TABLE_NAME [modify] [column COLUMN_NAME]
[DATA TYPE | null not null]
[restrict | cascade]
[drop] [constraint CONSTRAINT_NAME]
[add] [column] COLUMN DEFINITION;

## DROP Statements

DROP TABLE Customer_TBL;

# Chapter Six: Data Manipulation Language Statements

INSERT Statements

One Row at a Time

INSERT INTO TABLE_NAME [(column_1, column_2, … , column_n)]
VALUES (value_1, value_2, …, value_n) ;    

Update Statements

UPDATE TABLE_NAME
SET column_1 = EXPRESSION_1,
column_2 = EXPRESSION_2,
…
column_n = EXPRESSION_N
[WHERE predicates];

UPDATE Statements

One at a time:

UPDATE Customer_TBL
SET JobPosition = ‘VP’
WHERE CustomerName = ‘Mike Armhs’;

Multiple Records at a time:

UPDATE Customer_TBL
SET JobPosition = ‘Vice-President’
WHERE JobPosition = ‘VP’;

All records at a time:

UPDATE Customer_TBL
SET CustomerName = UPPER(CustomerName)

DELETE Statements

DELETE FROM TABLE_NAME
[WHERE CONDITION];

# Chapter 7: Data Query Language Statements
